### Business Requirements

-   Inventory of all assets
    
-   Valuation of assets
    
-   Determine of critical path, process, and assets
    
-   Risk appetite
    

  

### Asset Inventory

-   What are our assets?
    

-   Anything that is tangible including people
    

-   Where are our assets?
    

-   Can’t control something if we have no visibility
    

  

### Asset Valuation

-   Known as BIA. Find out what each asset is worth.
    

  

### How critical is it?

-   Made by senior management
    
-   Includes tangible assets, intangible, business processes, pathways, and personnel.
    
-   Security professionals need to know the mission and functions
    

-   Where the single point of failure is
    
-   Cross train people
    
-   Continuous backups
    
-   Load balancing
    

### Risk Appetite

-   How much risk is accepted
    

-   Avoidance - too high and can't be compensated
    
-   Acceptance - it is accepted and and health with
    
-   Transfer - 3rd party handles it
    
-   Mitigate - they decrease it
    

  

### Cloud Model Boundaries

-   Customers are always ultimately legally liable for any data loss.
    
-   IaaS: customer is responsible for OS and everything else.
    
-   PaaS: provider is responsible for installation, maintenance, and administration of OS.
    
-   SaaS: Customer is responsible for data process and supplies.
    

  

### Device Hardening

-   Disabled guest accounts
    
-   No open unused ports
    
-   No default passwords
    
-   Strong password policy
    
-   Admin accounts are secured
    
-   Disabled unnecessary services
    
-   Limited physical access
    
-   Systems are up to date with patches
    
-   Endpoint security
    
-   Encryption
    
-   Remote wipe
    
-   Strong access controls
    
-   Vpn solutions
    
-   DLP
    

  

### Encryption

-   Storage and archiving
    
-   VM snapshots
    
-   unauthorised access prevention
    
-   Secure sessions
    
-   Integrity and confidentiality assurance